Documented requirements and configuration of the back end search (#1526)
contao/docs: docs/manual/installation/system-requirements/backend-search.en.md

---
title: "Backend Search"
description: "Here you will learn everything you need to know to use the Contao backend search."
aliases:
    - /en/installation/system-requirements/backend-search
---

{{< version "5.5.0" >}}

> The backend search in Contao is based on a project called "SEAL" by PHP-CMSIG. SEAL stands for "Search Engine Abstraction Layer" and has the same goal as Doctrine DBAL (which stands for "Database Abstraction Layer"). While Doctrine DBAL focuses on abstracting various database servers, PHP-CMSIG SEAL abstracts different search engines. The advantage in both cases: Ideally, this allows you to use Contao with different databases and search engines and benefit from their respective advantages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The back end search in Contao is based on a project called "SEAL" by PHP-CMSIG. SEAL stands for "Search Engine Abstraction Layer" and has the same goal as Doctrine DBAL (which stands for "Database Abstraction Layer"). While Doctrine DBAL focuses on abstracting various database servers, PHP-CMSIG SEAL abstracts different search engines. The advantage in both cases: Ideally, this allows you to use Contao with different databases and search engines and benefit from their respective advantages.
```

Learn more about PHP-CMSIG and the SEAL project [here][PHP-CMSIG] and [here][SEAL].

## Basic Requirements

At the end of the day, every search engine works in a relatively similar way. You provide it with some content (usually 
called a "document"), which is then processed so that it can be efficiently searched. There are various techniques to meet different requirements. Examples:

* It would be nice if searching for "systems" also found "system" (Stemming).
* It would be cool if searching for "Markdwon" also found "Markdown" (Typo Tolerance).
* It gets really interesting if searching for "warm clothing" also finds "gloves" (AI Embeddings).

Not all search engines support all functions. Some are faster but less accurate. Others have specific system requirements, etc.

### Basic Requirement 1: The Cronjob Framework

> All search engines have one thing in common: processing documents can take a long time. Making an entire Contao backend searchable, including all its content, can take several minutes depending on the system's size. The exact duration, of course, depends on the amount of content and the search engine used, but it takes time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All search engines have one thing in common: processing documents can take a long time. Making an entire Contao back end searchable, including all its content, can take several minutes depending on the system's size. The exact duration, of course, depends on the amount of content and the search engine used, but it takes time.
```

| Solr          | `cmsig/seal-solr-adapter`          | solr://solr:SolrRocks@127.0.0.1:8983        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Redisearch    | `cmsig/seal-redisearch-adapter`    | redis://phpredis:phpredis@127.0.0.1:6379    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Typesense     | `cmsig/seal-typesense-adapter`     | typesense://S3CR3T@127.0.0.1:8108           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

> | Loupe         | `cmsig/seal-loupe-adapter`         | loupe://var/indexes/                        | Loupe runs on <br/>your local filesystem and only requires PHP and an SQLite database. The minimal requirement is that either <br/>`sqlite3` or `pdo_sqlite` is available in your PHP setup. |

Author: ```suggestion
| Loupe         | `cmsig/seal-loupe-adapter`         | loupe://var/indexes/                        | Loupe runs on your local filesystem and only requires PHP and an SQLite database. The minimal requirement is that either `sqlite3` or `pdo_sqlite` is available in your PHP setup. |
```

> The backend search is configured via DSN in your `config.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The back end search is configured via DSN in your `config.yaml`:
```
